docs: ui.action_group (#895)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/docs/components/action_group.md

# Action Group

An action group is a UI component that groups multiple actions together. 

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_basic = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
)
```

## UI recommendations

> Consider using a [`button_group`], if you want to align multiple buttons that do not necessarily correspond to actio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider using a [`button_group`] if you want to align multiple buttons that do not necessarily correspond to action.
```

## Icons

> Icons can be added to action group items by wrapping the label in a `ui.text` element, and adding a `ui.icon` as a sibling component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Icons can be added to action group items by wrapping the label in a `ui.text` element and adding a `ui.icon` as a sibling component.
```

    overflow_mode="collapse",
    max_width=250,
)
```

When selection is enabled, the action group collapses all items into a menu when space is limited, with a highlighted menu button indicating a selection.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_selection_collapsing_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item(ui.icon("vsEdit"), ui.text("Edit")),
    ui.item(ui.icon("vsCopy"), ui.text("Copy")),
    ui.item(ui.icon("vsTrash"), ui.text("Delete")),
    static_color="white",
    summary_icon=ui.icon("vsSearch"),
    overflow_mode="collapse",
    selection_mode="multiple",
    is_emphasized=True,
    max_width=10,
)
```

## Quiet State

The `is_quiet` prop makes action groups "quiet". This can be useful when the action group and its corresponding styling should not distract users from surrounding content.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_is_quiet_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
    is_quiet=True,
)
```

## Emphasized

The `is_emphasized` prop makes the selected action item the user's accent color, adding a visual prominence to the selection.

```python

> from deephaven import ui
> 
> 
> my_action_group_is_emphasized_example = ui.action_group(
>     ui.item("Add"),
>     ui.item("Edit"),
>     ui.item("Delete"),
>     selection_mode="single",
>     is_emphasized=True,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_is_emphasized_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Dogs"),
    ui.item("Cats"),
    ui.item("Fish"),
    selected_keys["Dogs"],
    selection_mode="single",
    is_emphasized=True,
```

Contextually, selection mode single probably doesn't make sense with the text options shown. I would also select one by default

)
```

## Static Color

The `static_color` prop can be used when the action group is placed over a color background.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_static_color_example = ui.view(
    ui.action_group(
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsEdit"), ui.text("Edit")),
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsCopy"), ui.text("Copy")),
        ui.item(ui.icon("vsTrash"), ui.text("Delete")),
        static_color="white",
    ),
    background_color="blue-700",
    padding="size-500",
)
```

## Disabled State

Action groups can be disabled to prevent user interaction. This is useful when the group is not currently available, but the button should still be visible.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_is_disabled_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
    is_disabled=True,
)
```

## Orientation

While aligned horizontally by default, the axis the action items align with can be changed via the `orientation` prop.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_orientation_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
    orientation="vertical",
)
```

## Density

> Using the `density` prop can inrease or reduce margins between action buttons. If the action group has the `is_quiet` prop set to true, it reduces the margin size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `density` prop can increase or reduce margins between action buttons. When the `is_quiet` prop is set to true, margin size is reduced.
```

# Action Group

An action group is a UI component that groups multiple actions together. 

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_basic = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
)
```

## UI recommendations

Consider using a [`button_group`] to align multiple buttons that do not necessarily correspond to an action.

## Icons

Icons can be added to action group items by wrapping the label in a `ui.text` element and adding a `ui.icon` as a sibling component.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_icon_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item(ui.icon("vsEdit"), ui.text("Edit")),
    ui.item(ui.icon("vsCopy"), ui.text("Copy")),
    ui.item(ui.icon("vsTrash"), ui.text("Delete")),
)
```

> The `button_label_behavior` prop can be set to "hide" label text within buttons and show it in a tooltip on hover.

Reviewer: What about:

```suggestion
Use the `button_label_behavior` prop to "hide" label text within buttons and show it in a tooltip on hover.
```

Are there other options?

Author: It can be set "show", "collapse", and "hide", but usually, users would only be setting it to "hide"

Reviewer: @dsmmcken worth mentioning? I assume show is the default?

Reviewer 2: Just hide is fine, I have no preference on how you guys word it.

# Action Group

> A action group is a UI component that groups multiple actions together. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An action group is a UI component that groups multiple actions together. 
```

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_basic = ui.action_group(
    ui.action_button("Add"),
    ui.action_button("Edit"),

>     ui.action_button("Delete"),

Reviewer 2: not action buttons

)
```

## UI recommendations

Recommendations for creating action groups:

1. Every action group should have a [label](#labeling) specified. Without one, the action group is ambiguous. In the rare case that context is sufficient, the label is unnecessary; you must still include an aria-label via the `aria_label` prop.
2. Emphasized actions in the action group are ideal for forms and settings where they need to stand out, while non-emphasized actions are best for monochrome application panels to keep the focus on the application.

> 3. The label and options should all be in sentence case.

Reviewer 2: These aren't valueable recommendations, I would just drop them.

> Consider using a [`radio_group`](./radio_group.md) when users should select one option from a set of mutually exclusive choices. If wanting to manage multiple selections or no selections within a group at once, consider using a [`checkbox_group`](./checkbox_group.md) If wanting to align multiple buttons that do not neccesarily correspond to action , considering using a [`button_group`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider using a [`radio_group`](./radio_group.md) when users should select one option from a set of mutually exclusive choices. If you want to manage multiple selections or no selections within a group at once, consider using a [`checkbox_group`](./checkbox_group.md). If you want to align multiple buttons that do not necessarily correspond to action, consider using a [`button_group`]
```

> Consider using a [`radio_group`](./radio_group.md) when users should select one option from a set of mutually exclusive choices. If wanting to manage multiple selections or no selections within a group at once, consider using a [`checkbox_group`](./checkbox_group.md) If wanting to align multiple buttons that do not neccesarily correspond to action , considering using a [`button_group`]

Reviewer 2: Radio group isn't a practical comparison, I would only compare to button group as alternative. The distinction being action_group would be more for a set of actions where as buttons a set of choices.

## Icons

Icons can be added to action group items by wrapping the label in a `ui.text` element, and adding a `ui.icon` as a sibling component.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_icon_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item(ui.text("Edit"), ui.icon("vsEdit")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Copy"), ui.icon("vsCopy")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Delete"), ui.icon("vsTrash")),

> )

Reviewer 2: Always list icon first then text in all examples.

```

The `button_label_behavior` prop can be set to "hide" label text within buttons and show it in a tooltip on hover.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_button_label_behavior_example = ui.flex(
    ui.action_group(
        ui.item(
            ui.text("Edit"),
            ui.icon("vsEdit"),
        ),
        ui.item(ui.text("Copy"), ui.icon("vsCopy")),
        ui.item(ui.text("Delete"), ui.icon("vsTrash")),
        button_label_behavior="hide",
    ),

>     margin_top="50px",

Reviewer 2: remove margin, I get that you probably added to so tooltips wouldn't overlap, but it's just extra noise in the example code.

)
```

## Selection

> Action group supports multiple selection modes, configurable via the `selection_mode` prop. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Action groups support multiple selection modes, configurable via the `selection_mode` prop. 
```

The `default_selected_keys` can be used for uncontrolled default selections.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_default_selected_keys_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Grid view", key="grid"),
    ui.item("List view", key="list"),
    ui.item("Gallery view", key="gallery"),
    selection_mode="single",
    default_selected_keys=["list"],
)
```

> The `selected_keys` prop for can be used for controlled selections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `selected_keys` prop can be used for controlled selections.
```

from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_action_group_on_change_example():
    selected_option, set_selected_option = ui.use_state("")
    return [
        ui.action_group(
            ui.item("Grid view", key="grid"),
            ui.item("List view", key="list"),
            ui.item("Gallery view", key="gallery"),
            selection_mode="single",
            on_selection_change=set_selected_option,
        ),
        ui.text(f"You have selected: {selected_option}"),
    ]

my_action_group_on_change_example = ui_action_group_on_change_example()
```

## Collapsing Behavior

By default, the items of an action group wrap to a new line when space is limited. To keep them in a single line, set the `overflow_mode` prop to "collapse", which collapses the items into a menu.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_overflow_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item(ui.text("Edit"), ui.icon("vsEdit")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Copy"), ui.icon("vsCopy")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Delete"), ui.icon("vsTrash")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Move"), ui.icon("vsMove")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Duplicate"), ui.icon("vsDiffMultiple")),
    overflow_mode="collapse",
    max_width=250,
)
```

> When selection is enabled, action group collapses all items into a menu when space is limited, with a highlighted menu button indicating a selection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When selection is enabled, the action group collapses all items into a menu when space is limited, with a highlighted menu button indicating a selection.
```

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_selection_collapsing_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item(ui.text("Edit"), ui.icon("vsEdit")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Copy"), ui.icon("vsCopy")),
    ui.item(ui.text("Delete"), ui.icon("vsTrash")),
    static_color="white",
    summary_icon=ui.icon("vsSearch"),
    overflow_mode="collapse",
    selection_mode="multiple",
    is_emphasized=True,
    max_width=10,
)
```

## Quiet State

The `is_quiet` prop makes action groups "quiet". This can be useful when the action group and its corresponding styling should not distract users from surrounding content.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_is_quiet_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
    is_quiet=True,
)
```

## Emphasized

The `is_emphasized` prop makes the selected action item the user's accent color, adding a visual prominence to the selection.

```python
from deephaven import ui

> my_action_group_is_emphasized_example = ui.action_group(

Reviewer 2: needs a selection mode to make is emphasized visible

    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
    is_emphasized=True,
)
```

## Static Color

The `static_color` prop can be used when the action group is placed over a color background.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_static_color_example = ui.view(
    ui.action_group(
        ui.item(ui.text("Edit"), ui.icon("vsEdit")),
        ui.item(ui.text("Copy"), ui.icon("vsCopy")),
        ui.item(ui.text("Delete"), ui.icon("vsTrash")),
        static_color="white",
    ),
    background_color="blue-700",
    padding="size-500",
)
```

## Disabled State

Action groups can be disabled to prevent user interaction. This is useful when the group is not currently available, but the button should still be visible.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_is_disabled_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),
    is_disabled=True,
)
```

## Orientation

> While aligned vertically by default, the axis the action items align with can be changed via the `orientation` prop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While aligned horizontally by default, the axis the action items align with can be changed via the `orientation` prop.
```

It's already horizonal by default,.

```python
from deephaven import ui

my_action_group_orientation_example = ui.action_group(
    ui.item("Add"),
    ui.item("Edit"),
    ui.item("Delete"),

>     orientation="horizontal",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    orientation="vertical",
```

)
```

## Density

Using the `density` prop with value compact reduces margins between action buttons. By default, it merges neighboring borders. If the action group has the `is_quiet` prop set to true, it reduces the margin size.

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component

> def ui_action_group_density_examples():

Reviewer 2: add a third one with `spacious`
